Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud.

A workload is memory-intensive when it stores or holds large amounts of data in RAM.
A workload is compute-intensive when it spends most of its time performing CPU-heavy calculations.

General purpose
General Purpose instances are designed to deliver a balance of compute, memory, and network resources. They are suitable for a wide range of applications, including web servers, small databases, development and test environments, and more.

Compute optimized
Compute Optimized instances provide a higher ratio of compute power to memory. They excel in workloads that require high-performance processing such as batch processing, 
scientific modeling, gaming servers, and high-performance web servers.

Memory optimized
Memory Optimized instances are designed to handle memory-intensive workloads. They are suitable for applications that require large amounts of memory, such as in-memory databases,
real-time big data analytics, and high-performance computing.

Storage optimized
Storage Optimized instances are optimized for applications that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets. 
They are ideal for tasks like data warehousing, log processing, and distributed file systems.

Accelerated computing
Accelerated Computing Instances typically come with one or more types of accelerators, such as Graphics Processing Units (GPUs),
Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), or custom Application Specific Integrated Circuits (ASICs). 
These accelerators offload computationally intensive tasks from the main CPU, enabling faster and more efficient processing for specific workloads.

pem key permission:
While doing ssh to ec2 you must first give 600 permission to pem file then do ssh
ssh -i file-name.pem ubuntu@ip

Access ec2:
if you deployed any service on ec2 and try to access on (http) browser by default it will not be accessible so you must add inbound rule.
instance-id ---> security ---> security-group-link ---> inbound rules
