First we will go to vpc resource and select vpc and more which create most of the things automatically like subnets , route tables and internet gateway , igw is use for forwarding request to subnet. We will continue with 2 public , private subents and also 2 availability zones and we will also get  NAT gateway for each particular zone. And we will remove s3 bucket from vpc endpoint and create vpc (if error arrive for elastic ip then go to ec2 instance and in there go to elastic ips and release those and retry for create vpc , elastic ip is assigned to NAT gateway for masking instances ips which are in private subnets).

Now we will create our ec2 instances using auto scaling group, go auto scaling group resource (you can go from ec2 as well), then click on create autoscaling group then first click on create launch template. Give it name then select ubuntu as OS (click recently launched) , instance type will be t2.micro, select key-value pair, in network setting create new security group , give name to security group then select your vpc then add 2 inbound rules one for ssh and 2nd for tcp traffic on port 8000 (b/c i know that i will deploy application on this port) then create launch template now refresh autoscaling group page so it discover launch template. Now name this auto scaling group and select launch template then click next and select your vpc andthen select subnets where you want to place this ec2 instances(private subnets) then next and for load balancing dont select this load balancer , we will add application load balancer later so just click on next. Now for group size select desired as 2 min as 1 and max as 4 (for this specific config)now click next and also for next page click next b/c for now we dont want any notification and for tag page also click next and create auto scaling groups. Now check ec2 instances b/c this auto scaling group must have created 2 instances in specified subnets.

Now we will create application load balancer but before that we deploy our application on intances so to do that we will have to create bastion host b/c as you will see there will be no public ip for you ec2 instances b/c they are created in private subnets. So to create bastion host go to ec2 instance select ubuntu image and instance as t2.micro and for security group aws will create default for ssh access to this bastion host then in network setting select your vpc and this automatically select public subnet in that vpc and then enable auto assign public ip address then create instance.

Now to deploy application in private subnets , now to access this private instances you just have to copy .pem key to bastion host and from there you will ssh into private ec2 instance using private ip and deploy application. Scp command is like this:
scp -i aws3-login.pem aws3-login.pem ubuntu@100.31.127.149:/home/ubuntu


Lastly we will create application load balancer and atteach these private instances as target groups. Load balancer must be in public subnet and must have direct access from internet gateway. Now go to load balancer and create load balancer and select application load balancer give this name and should be internet-facing and in network mapping select your vpc and in mapping select both zones in public subnet. Now in security group section add security group which you created in launch template of auto scaling group. Now in listener and routing first click on create target group, target type must be instances , give it any name and in protocol give http and 8000 port then click next select private instances there and then click on including as pending and then create this target group. Now go to application load balancer again do the previous setting as same but in listenet and routing select protocol http and port must be 8000 b/c we mentioned that in security group but just for the sake of proof of concept we will use port 80 (this will not work) then create load balancer. Now open load balancer and scroll down you will see error http:80 Not reachable. So now you can just go securty tab in load balancer and click on sg link and add inbound rule for http 80. Now you can access application using application load balancer DNS.
Note: First create target group so it will be easy to just attach it to application load balancer
